SAAS-1831 - app system local development (#170)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/apps/platform-sh-template.md

> # Platform.sh template
> 
> This guide will walk you through the process of getting started with Platform.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Platform.sh template

## Overview

This guide will walk you through the process of getting started with Platform.sh
```

## Getting started

In order to use [this template](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate) for development or for production you need to configure two things.  

* The `APP_NAME` (the unique name of your app, the root app folder has to be named equally)
* The `APP_SECRET` (a secret which is needed for the registration process)

You need to set both of them in your `manifest.xml` but also in the `.platform.app.yaml`.

An example for the `manifest.xml` would be:

> ```xml
> <manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/app-system/0.1.0/src/Core/Content/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-1.0.xsd">
>     <meta>
>         <name>myAppName</name>
>     </meta>
>     <setup>
>         <secret>myAppSecret</secret>
>     </setup>
> </manifest>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/app-system/0.1.0/src/Core/Content/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-1.0.xsd">
    <meta>
        <name>myAppName</name>
    </meta>
    <setup>
        <secret>myAppSecret</secret>
    </setup>
</manifest>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

An example for the [.platform.app.yaml](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/.platform.app.yaml) would be:

> ```yaml
> variables:
>     env:
>         APP_NAME: myExampleApp
>         APP_SECRET: myAppSecret
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title=".platform.app.yaml" %}
```yaml
variables:
    env:
        APP_NAME: myExampleApp
        APP_SECRET: myAppSecret
```
{% endcode %}
``````

## Create the manifest.xml

To easily create `manifest.xml`-files you can use the `bin/console app:create-manifest` command. This command will generate a manifest from the [template](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/templates/manifest-template.xml). For testing purposes this is the default manifest template from our example app.  
In there you can use `{{ APP_NAME }}`,`{{ APP_SECRET }}`,`{{ APP_URL_CLIENT }}` and `{{ APP_URL_BACKEND }}` which will get replaced by the values configured in your `.env`. Further more you can use your own variables like `{{ MY_OWN_VARIABLE }}` and declare them when executing the command like this `bin/console app:create-manifest MY_OWN_VARIABLE=MY_OWN_VARIABLE_VALUE`.  
This allows you to easily change URL's in your `manifest.xml` without changing the `.env` file. The generated `manifest.xml` can be found in `build/dev`.  

## Development

This is a symfony based development template. To register your app you only need to configure your manifest. The registration URL is `https://www.my-app.com/registration`.

The `SwagAppsystem\Client` and `SwagAppsystem\Event` will be injected when you need them.
For example: 

> ```php
> <?php declare(strict_types=1);
> 
> namespace App\Controller;
> 
> use App\SwagAppsystem\Client;
> use App\SwagAppsystem\Event;
> use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
> use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
> 
> class OrderController
> {
>     /**
>      * @Route("/order/placed/event", methods={"POST"})
>      */
>     public function orderPlacedEvent(Client $client, Event $event): Response
>     {
>         //nth
>     }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: Please adjust the code title to fit to an app installation path, which points to a custom OrderController

``````suggestion
{% code title="<app_root>/src/Controller/Order/OrderController.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace App\Controller;

use App\SwagAppsystem\Client;
use App\SwagAppsystem\Event;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;

class OrderController
{
    /**
     * @Route("/order/placed/event", methods={"POST"})
     */
    public function orderPlacedEvent(Client $client, Event $event): Response
    {
        //nth
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}
``````

## Testing

To test your app you can use [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/index.html)  
You can write your own tests in `tests`  

> and execute them executing `vendor/bin/phpunit`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and execute them using `vendor/bin/phpunit`
```

To check your codestyle you can use [EasyCodingStandard](https://github.com/symplify/easy-coding-standard)  
Just execute `vendor/bin/ecs check` to check your code or add `--fix` to also fix your code.

## Code quality

> To improve your code style we added [EasyCodingStandard](https://github.com/symplify/easy-coding-standard) and for testing purposes [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/index.html).
> 

Reviewer: Why do you explain them under "Code quality", even more because you explained PHPunit and ecs before.

I'd suggest, you just remove this.
```suggestion
```

To check your code style just execute `vendor/bin/ecs check` or add `--fix` to also fix your code.

To make sure that your code is working correctly you can write your own tests in `tests`.  
In order to execute those just execute `vendor/bin/phpunit`.  

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In there you can use the `$client` to communicate with the shop or use the `$event` to get the data.
 
## The registration process 

> The registration is the most important thing in your app. To handle this we have the [Registration](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Controller/Registration.php) controller. This controller will handle the whole registration.  

Reviewer: Duplicate sentences.

I'd suggest:
```suggestion
The registration is the most important thing in your app. To handle this we have the [Registration controller](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Controller/Registration.php).
```

But if you want to build your own [Client](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Client.php) you can simply get the [Credentials](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Credentials.php) for a specific `shopId`.  
 
## App lifecycle events

There are five app lifecycle events which can be triggered during the lifecycle of an app. The events are `app.installed`, `app.updated`, `app.deleted`, `app.activated` and `app.deactivated`.
To use this events you have to create the webhooks in your manifest. If you want to implement your own code you only need to implement the [AppLifecycleHandler](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/AppLifecycleHandler.php) interface and write your own code.  

The `app.installed` event gets triggered each time the app gets installed. This will also trigger the `app.activated` event. At each of this both events the shop is already installed and registered at your app. The webhook could look like this:

> ```xml
> <webhook name="appLifecycleInstalled" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/installed" event="app.installed"/>
> ```

Reviewer: Is this the manifest.xml ? 
If so please keep the "title", otherwise remove it

``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleInstalled" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/installed" event="app.installed"/>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

Author: Yes this is part of the `manifest.xml`. I will keep the "title" :smile:

The `app.updated` event gets triggered each time a shop updated your app.  
The webhook could look like this:

> ```xml
> <webhook name="appLifecycleUpdated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/updated" event="app.updated"/>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleUpdated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/updated" event="app.updated"/>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

The `app.deleted` event gets triggered each time a shop deletes your app. At this point the shop is deleted using the [shopRepository](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/Repository/ShopRepository.php). You should delete all shop data you have saved and stop the communication with the shop.  
The webhook could look like this:

> ```xml
> <webhook name="appLifecycleDeleted" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/deleted" event="app.deleted"/>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleDeleted" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/deleted" event="app.deleted"/>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

The `app.activated` event gets triggered each time your app gets installed or activated. At this point you can start the communication with the shop.  
The webhook could look like this:

> ```xml
> <webhook name="appLifecycleActivated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/activated" event="app.activated"/>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleActivated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/activated" event="app.activated"/>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

The `app.deactivated` event gets triggered each time your app gets deactivated. At this point you should stop the communication with the shop.  
The webhook could look like this:

> ```xml
> <webhook name="appLifecycleDeactivated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/deactivated" event="app.deactivated"/>
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleDeactivated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/deactivated" event="app.deactivated"/>
```
{% endcode %}
``````

For example: 

{% code title="AppExample/src/Controller/Order/OrderController.php" %}
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);
namespace App\Controller;
use App\SwagAppsystem\Client;
use App\SwagAppsystem\Event;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
class OrderController
{
    /**
     * @Route("/order/placed/event", methods={"POST"})
     */
    public function orderPlacedEvent(Client $client, Event $event): Response
    {
        //nth
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

## Testing

To test your app you can use [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/index.html).  
You can write your own tests in `tests` and execute them using `vendor/bin/phpunit`.

To check your codestyle you can use [EasyCodingStandard](https://github.com/symplify/easy-coding-standard)  
Just execute `vendor/bin/ecs check` to check your code or add `--fix` to also fix your code.

## Code quality

To check your code style just execute `vendor/bin/ecs check` or add `--fix` to also fix your code.  
To make sure that your code is working correctly you can write your own tests in `tests`. In order to execute those just execute `vendor/bin/phpunit`.  

> In there you can use the `$client` to communicate with the shop or use the `$event` to get the data.

Author: As you already mentioned, this paragraph is almose the same as the one above it so I removed it :smile:

For example you define a route for incoming webhooks and want to fetch some extra data. Then you can use them as a parameter of the method which will be called when a request is send to the route.  

But how do you know that the request is from the shop and not from someone who is sending post requests to your app?
The argument resolver take care of it. Whenever you use one of them as a parameter the request will be authenticated. If the request isn't authenticated the [Client](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Client.php) or the [Event](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Event.php) will be null. 

## The shop repository

The [ShopRepository](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/Repository/ShopRepository.php) can be used to get the secret of the shop and the [Credentials](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Credentials.php).  

> For example if you want to build your own authentication you can use the [ShopRepository](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/Repository/ShopRepository.php) to get the secret to the corresponding shop.  

Author: I think this was an artifact from the very first example app :smile: I will remove this.

> But if you want to build your own [Client](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Client.php) you can simply get the [Credentials](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Credentials.php) for a specific `shopId`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to build your own [Client](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Client.php) you can use the [Credentials](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/Credentials.php) to get a specific `shopId`.  
```

 
## App lifecycle events

There are five app lifecycle events which can be triggered during the lifecycle of an app. The events are `app.installed`, `app.updated`, `app.deleted`, `app.activated` and `app.deactivated`.

> To use this events you have to create the webhooks in your manifest. If you want to implement your own code you only need to implement the [AppLifecycleHandler](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/AppLifecycleHandler.php) interface and write your own code.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this events you have to create the webhooks in your manifest. If you want to implement your own code you need to implement the [AppLifecycleHandler](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/SwagAppsystem/AppLifecycleHandler.php) interface and write your own code.  
```

> The `app.installed` event gets triggered each time the app gets installed. This will also trigger the `app.activated` event. At each of this both events the shop is already installed and registered at your app. The webhook could look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `app.installed` event gets triggered each time the app gets installed. This will also trigger the `app.activated` event. At each of these events the shop is already installed and registered at your app. The webhook could look like this:
```

{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleInstalled" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/installed" event="app.installed"/>
```
{% endcode %}

The `app.updated` event gets triggered each time a shop updated your app.  
The webhook could look like this:

{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<webhook name="appLifecycleUpdated" url="https://your-shop-url/applifecycle/updated" event="app.updated"/>
```
{% endcode %}

> The `app.deleted` event gets triggered each time a shop deletes your app. At this point the shop is deleted using the [shopRepository](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/Repository/ShopRepository.php). You should delete all shop data you have saved and stop the communication with the shop.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `app.deleted` event gets triggered each time a shop deletes your app. At this point the shop is deleted using the [shopRepository](https://github.com/shopwareLabs/AppTemplate/blob/master/src/Repository/ShopRepository.php). You need to delete all of the shops data you have saved, and are not legally required to keep, then stop the communication with the shop.  
```
